All the statements which are on the same level of Indentation(Same no of whitespaces before them) belong to a single block, so from the above diagram, statements in line 1, line 2, and line 7 belong to a single block, and the block has the zero or lowest level of indentation. Statements 3 and 5 are indented one step, forming another block at the first level of indentation. Similarly, statements 4 and 6 are indented two steps, so they together form another block at the second level of indentation.
Below the line 2 statement, which is an if statement, statements 3 and 5 are indented one step; hence, they belong to a single block. And since line 2 is an if statement, the block indented below the first if forms the body of second if. So here, the body of the if statement at line 2 includes all the lines that are indented below it, i.e., lines 3,4,5 and 6.
Now that we know that statement at line numbers 3,4,5 and 6 forms the body of the if statement at line 2. Let us understand the indentation for them. Statements at 3 and 5 are uniformly indented, so they belong to a single block (block2 from the interpretation), and they will be executed one by one.
Statement at line 4 makes up the body of the if statement at line 3, as we know any statements that are indented below an if form the body of if statement, similarity the statement at line 6 makes up the body of else statement at line 5.
This is how the indentation helps define the blocks and also to identify to which statements the block belongs.
Now, the statement at line 3 is executed, and if the condition is evaluated, in case it returns true, then line 4 is executed, after which control goes to line 7. If the condition at line 3 returns false, then control goes to another statement that is line 5, and then line 6 is executed, followed by the statement at line 7.
Now the statement if name == Rakib: is evaluated, it returns true, so it executes the body of the if, which is the indented next two statements below the if statement. The two statements inside the body are print(‘Welcome Rakib..’) and print(‘How are you?’) and they get executed.